you will rejoice to hear that no disaster has accompanied the commencement of an enterprise which you have
regarded with such evil forebodings i arrived here yesterday and my first task is to assure my dear sister
of my welfare and increasing confidence in the success of my undertaking i am already far north of london
and as i walk in the streets of petersburgh i feel a cold northern breeze play upon my cheeks which braces
my nerves and fills me with delight do you understand this feeling this breeze which has travelled from the
regions towards which i am advancing gives me a foretaste of those icy climes inspirited by this wind of
promise my daydreams become more fervent and vivid i try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat
of frost and desolation it ever presents itself to my imagination as the region of beauty and delight there
margaret the sun is for ever visible its broad disk just skirting the horizon and diffusing a perpetual
splendour there for with your leave my sister i will put some trust in preceding navigators there snow and
frost are banished and sailing over a calm sea we may be wafted to a land surpassing in wonders and in
beauty every region hitherto discovered on the habitable globe its productions and features may be without
example as the phenomena of the heavenly bodies undoubtedly are in those undiscovered solitudes what may
not be expected in a country of eternal light i may there discover the wondrous power which attracts the
needle and may regulate a thousand celestial observations that require only this voyage to render their
seeming eccentricities consistent for ever i shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part
of the world never before visited and may tread a land never before imprinted by the foot of man these
are my enticements and they are sufficient to conquer all fear of danger or death and to induce me to
commence this laborious voyage with the joy a child feels when he embarks in a little boat with his holiday
mates on an expedition of discovery up his native river but supposing all these conjectures to be false you
cannot contest the inestimable benefit which i shall confer on all mankind to the last generation by
discovering a passage near the pole to those countries to reach which at present so many months are
requisite or by ascertaining the secret of the magnet which if at all possible can only be effected by an
undertaking such as mine
